Video - 51
------------
Migrating Book Store to Drizzle ORM - Part 1: Schema Setup


Firstly, we need to create a docker-compose.yml file. 
Talking about ports in .yml file, we can set it as 5431 but the defaut must be -542:5432. So., it's better to delete the old containers running on that port in docker(previous video is running on this port so delete it).

Chatgpt Content:
-----------------
image in docker-compose.yml file:

instead of installing:
PostgreSQL,
Dependencies,
OS libraries,
Configuration,
Docker just pulls the image which already contains everything.



Why do we need Drizzle-kit?

Why do we need drizzle-kit?

Remember — in Drizzle you define tables in code like:

pgTable("users", {...})

But writing schema in code alone does NOT create tables in the database.

👉 You still need to update the actual database.

That’s where drizzle-kit comes in.

What drizzle-kit does in simple words

👉 It converts your schema code → SQL migration files
👉 Then applies those migrations to your database

So, users creates a schema, then it calls dizzle-generate, and then drizzle-migration, and then npx drizzle-kit push.


Course Content:
Then, we installed npm i dotenv, npm i drizzle-orm pg, and npm i drizzle-kit.
Now , all the packages are installed. 


Setup everything that is files. Schema.js is created inside models folder, and is renamed as book.model.js.

// These kind of Foreign-Table relationships are not possible in MongoDB

We use 'references with an arrow function" to link one table model to another table model.

 authorId: uuid().references(() => authorsTable.id).notNull()


 In drizzle.config.js file, we have to mention the schema. But our schema is fragmented into two files i.e., authorMode.js and bookModel.js. So, here are two ways:
 1. we can just mention the main directory of the files i.e., models. -> not tried, so not sure which was told in the course.
 2. We can create an index.js file inside the models folder, and we can import both the authorMode.js and bookModel.js, and use that as file for schema.


 After all these steps, now we must initiate the docker that is, turn on the database by typing "docker compose up -d". Then we have to push the tables in the public schema so we need to type "npx drizzle-kit push".  After this has been created, we must type "npx drizzle-kit studio". Now you will get a link that is https://local.drizzle.studio


 Then you wll see the tables in the link. You can also add data in the drizzle link by selectinng the table or model, and then clicking "Add Record" button.  


 Video - 52
 -----------





