Video - 47
-----------
Explanation of Relational and Non-Relational DBs

To begin with, let's understand what the applications in real-world look like.
So, client(through frontend) interacts with the server(which is currently being built in Node.js).
The purpose of the server is to accept or take the request, and do some processing on the response, and hen return back the response. 
There is a lot of work to do while processing the data. While processing the data, you might have to get some data from the database, you might want to add some data into the database, or update something, or do something in the cache store, trigger some email, etc, and then send back the response. 
So, the most or commonly used thing here is the database. 
Database -  It is a system or a place where you can store all the application data. Ex, users signes up, passwords, preferences, data, etc. So, interacting and modeeling the database is an important thing, and is very important for the backend engineer.
There are 2 types of database: NOSQL and SQL Database.

SQL:
-------
Relational Database
Structured Data
Ex: Users object has id, name, email, pasword, profile image, etc. If we are building something like Facebook. You have multiple users. Now we will assign user A, user B, user C. Now, A has sent request to B, and we have to build a relationship between A and B in the database. So, we will create a Friends table in the database. So to identify friends, user_first and user_second, then user_first and user_third.
user_first:A             user_first:A
user_second:B            user_third:C
So, if we want to check how many friends a or b or c has, we can identify that A has 2 friends, B has 1 and C has 1. Also, B and C has one mutual friend A.

So, two make relatioships beween them, we use relational dbs, and it is very structured. 
Here, in this example, we are talking about one-many relationship. 

Database Examples - MySQL, Postgres, etc.


NOSQL:
-------
Non-Relational  Database
Non-Structured data

Here,there are no relations. If i try to access gender columns without initalizing or adding it, it will throw an error that first we have to create a column, and then use or initialize it. Wehereas, in NOSQL or non-relational db, we can do that. Here, we have users table, and we can store any key and any value inside it. So, for storing friends, we can create an array, and then store friends as a, b,c. There are no relationships or boundaries here. Flexibility is more here. 

Database Examples - MongoDB.

Here, in this course, we will learn Postgres first and later move onto MongoDB because, learning structured db is very much required, and it gives proper idea about the database. Once we learn Relational DB, then Non-Relational Db would be a piece of cake to learn.



Video - 48
-----------
What is an ORM and why it is used in Application Development


Drizzle, Knex and Prizma is an ORM, and there are many more.

ORM - Object Relation mapper/mapping.

Google Def:
ORM - Is a piece of software designed to translate between the data representations used by databases and those used in object-oriented programming. 

Ex - I can speak Kannada language. Tere is an person whose is deaf and dumb. Now, we need to communicate to them. So now we will build a software, which coverts Knnada language to braile language. Now, the communication is very easy with the help of ORM.


Real-world:
Now, we have a javascript piece of code, and we have an postgres db. Now if we want to create a user table, we will write the user within the dict and aign them. Now, we want to store this inot DB. But we cannot sedn them directly into the db as it couldn't understand. Nw we will install ORM because it has connection to the db. Now this ORM is Javascript ->(to) Postgres. Now we can take this objet and give t to the ORM. Now this ORM will convert this object into SQL query, and then stores this into the postgres table. Now, let's say we want to read the user, then ORM will fire a query to read it like: SELECT * FROM USERS:, and then it returns some tabular data. Now, this sybtax is not understandable by hJS. Now this ORM converts into JS Syntax, and gives it to the JS. 

SO, we can use Dirzzle for JS -> MySQL and JS -> POSTGRES. 
SImilarly, JS -> MongoDB, we use Mongoose.
Then from Python -> Postgres, we use SQLAlchemy. 
Python -> MongoDb, we use PI Mongo.
There are many ORM's available for related language use.
Prisma = JS -> Any Database ie.e, JS -> MongoDB, PostgresSQl, MySQL,etc.




video - 49
-----------
Setting Up PostgreSQL with Docker for Local Development


PostgresSQl is one of the most powerful SQL, and almost all the companies use this. 

There are 3 methods to download the PostgresSql:
1. Full Download - Go to the official PostgresSql website, and download the suitable version for windows. The disadvantage of this is that you can only use one database as, you have installed it in the system, which is not right and won't be suitable in the future.
You can download this from -  https://www.postgresql.org/download/windows/ link.

2. We can download postgressql, and setup and store it in cloud. Then we can connect our local machine to the cloud. So, there are two disadvantages from this: 1. We will incur a cost.  2. There will be a latency in the usage as the database is hosted i the cloud, and the data fetching will become late.
You can use superbase -  https://supabase.com/  for this. How it works is first we need to sign in, then create a project. It will give us the username, password and the URL using which we can connect our local machine to the database.

3. Hybrid Approach - We can use something called as Docker. Inside the Docker, we can spin up the postgressql instance kind of virtual environment. We are not installing it on our system, we are just running it on the virtual environment fromour sytem. Once our work is done, we can delete the created instance, and it won't harm our local system. 
We can download it by :  https://www.docker.com/ , and then click for windows.


After that, install and run few commands to make it properly work, and then check the version in te terminal.

Now, we have to set up the postgres inside the docker.



